The Complete 2023 Web Development Bootcamp
Course image
265. Instructions
Course content
Play
248. Introduction to Postgres
8min
Start
249. How to Install PostgreSQL and pgAdmin
1min
Play
250. Understand how to use keys, Postgres types and keywords
11min
Start
251. Flag Emojis on Windows ?
1min
Play
252. Use pgAdmin to CREATE a TABLE
17min
Play
253. READ data from a Postgres database
23min
Play
254. Query data using SELECT, WHERE, and LIKE
19min
Play
255. UNIQUE and NOT NULL | Travel Tracker Part 1
19min
Play
256. INSERT and add Data | Travel Tracker Part 2
17min
Play
257. Travel Tracker Part 3
11min
Play
258. One to One Relationships & Inner Joins
12min
Play
259. One to Many Relationships
13min
Play
260. Many to Many Relationships & Aliases
12min
Play
261. The Family Travel Tracker
35min
Play
262. How to update and delete data & tables
19min
Play
263. Permalist Project
30min
Play
264. Tip from Angela - Daily Routines
3min
Start
265. Instructions
2min

Where did the old web development videos go?
2577 upvotes
Dr. Angela · Lecture 10 · 7 months ago
Q. I was working through the outdated lessons and now that you've updated the course, I've lost my progress and can't find the old outdated videos.

12 replies

Dr. Angela — Instructor
Answer
772 upvotes
7 months ago
You can still access all the old outdated lessons for free here:

https://appbrewery.com/p/legacy-complete-web-development-course/



You don't need to sign up and you don't need to give your email, just click on the "Preview" button and it will take you directly to the video player.



If you have already completed HTML/CSS/Bootstrap and don't want to repeat it using the new materials, just click on the checkbox to the left of the lesson title to mark those lessons as completed on Udemy.




VG
Varun
104 upvotes
7 months ago
Thank you for updating course.

VG
Varun
339 upvotes
7 months ago
Can you add a project which uses React js and every thing else that we have learned

IE
Igwonobe
89 upvotes
7 months ago
Thank you so much. Really appreciate the updates, but we can't find the video on how to properly set up VS Code. Please help...

AS
Anara Chibuike
39 upvotes
7 months ago
Please there is no video on how to properly set up VS code and the paragraph element is that it can't be displayed on our VS code same with movie element.

MM
Musa
75 upvotes
7 months ago
please update the react as new react has been release and also backend developement with node.js

SW
Stefan
21 upvotes
7 months ago
I get the message "the progress for this element cannot be changed" when I want to click on the checkbox to the left of a lesson title. How can I then change my progress?

JS
Javandra
108 upvotes
7 months ago
Can u update for backend web dev course?

MA
Matthew
16 upvotes
7 months ago
Very happy to see the updated sections! Thank you Angela :)

NK
Nishant
80 upvotes
7 months ago
can you please update the video where you have deployed the server for the first time in the course using heroku as heroku is not available for free now

Please update that video.



PB
Patryk
59 upvotes
7 months ago
Cool that course is being updated, I just finished doing Mailchimp API Newsletter and it's wasn't a pleasure experience at all... it needs to be updated ASAP.

E
Endwell
30 upvotes
7 months ago
thanks so much great mentor

A
Add reply
Add reply
Teach the world online
Create an online video course, reach students across the globe, and earn money
Top companies choose Udemy Business to build in-demand career skills.
NasdaqVolkswagenBoxNetAppEventbrite
Udemy Business
Teach on Udemy
Get the app
About us
Contact us
Careers
Blog
Help and Support
Affiliate
Investors
Terms
Privacy policy
Sitemap
Accessibility statement
© 2023 Udemy, Inc.

265. Instructions
Instructions
What are Capstone Projects?

Overview
I read a lot of books but after I finish reading them I often don't remember all the most salient parts of the book. So I started taking notes. This capstone project is built on this idea. My friend Derek Sivers has this fantastic website where he has all the non-fiction books he has read, his notes, his ratings and when he read them. The books are sortable by rating, recency and title. It's a such cool idea for a project so I'm including it as a capstone here in this course.

Objectives
Revise how to integrate public APIs into web projects.

Gain more experience using Express/Node.js for server-side programming.

Demonstrate ability to Create Read Update and Delete data in a PostgreSQL Database to persist data.

Example Ideas
Use the Open Library Covers API to fetch book covers.

Create a database to store books you have read.

Have a way to add new data about books, update previous reviews and delete entries.

Display this information from your database in a website like https://sive.rs/book

Be able to sort your book entries by rating and recency.

Requirements
1. Database Persistance
Persist data using a PostgreSQL database.

Use CRUD methods to manipulate data in the database.

2. Project Planning
Think through your project, researching the API documentation, project features, what data you will store, and how it will be used in your web application.

Draw a database diagram on draw.io and plan out any relationships.

Think through the PostgreSQL command you will need to write to create the schema for your database.

3. Project Setup
Set up a new Node.js project using Express.js.

Include pg for working with your localhost PostgreSQL database.

Include EJS for templating.

Create a frontend in HTML CSS JS.

Ensure that the project has a structured directory and file organization.

4. API Integration
Implement at least a GET endpoint to interact with your chosen API.

Use Axios to send HTTP requests to the API and handle responses.

5. Data Presentation
Design the application to present the book covers from the API and the data in your database a in a user-friendly way.

Use appropriate HTML, CSS, and a templating engine like EJS.

Think about how you would allow the user to sort the data from the database.

6. Error Handling
Ensure that error handling is in place for both your application and any API requests. You can console log any errors, but you can also give users any user-relevant errors.

7. Documentation
Include comments throughout your code to explain your logic.

8. Code Sharing
Use what you have learnt about GitHub to commit and push your project to GitHub so that you can share it with other students in the Q&A area, I'd love to see what you've build too! You can tweet at me @yu_angela

Include a Readme.md file that explains how to start your server, what commands are needed to run your code. e.g. npm i  and then nodemon index.js

Recommended Resources
Express.js: Getting Started Guide

Node.js: Documentation

Axios: Documentation

Postgres: Documentation

pg: Documentation

Open Library Covers API:  https://openlibrary.org/dev/docs/api/covers